# DSA-CP-SOC-2022

The repository contains the codes which were able to pass all the test cases of CSES Problems successfully. There were many other codes which I wrote to experiment with the techniques and algorithms I learnt through the video. For some of the CSES problems, I was not able to solve the TLE error so decided not to upload it. 

The project started with the basic understanding of asymptotic notations, time and space complexity which is most important for analysing algorithms. Next I learnt about bitwise operators and solved interesting and tricky problems related to it. Recursion is something which I knew since my 10th standard still I got to solve famous problems of recursion like Tower of Hanoi, Josephus Problems etc. The gfg videos of arrays also increased my knowledge and I learnt about various new things in it like Window Sliding Technique, Prefix Sum Technique, Kadane Algorithm and Moore's Voting Algorithm. I also learnt how simple algorithms of Binary Search and Merge Sort can be twisted and applied in the various interview problems. Apart from standard Bubble Sort, Selection Sort, Insertion Sort and Merge Sort, I learnt various other sorting techniques like Cycle Sort, Heap Sort, Counting Sort, Radix Sort, Bucket Sort and Quick Sort. Then I was intoduced to the concept of Hashing and was able to solve various problems in O(n) time which I wasn't able to solve before. I was quite comfortable with using strings since my school days yet through gfg videos I learnt various pattern searching algorithms like Rabin Karp Algorithm and KMP Algorithm. Then I learnt about various other data structures like Linked Lists (Simple Linked List, Doubly Linked List, Circular Linked List, Circular Doubly Linked List), Stack (including Infix, Prefix and Postfix interconversion and evaluation), Queue, Dequeue and Trees (Inorder, Preorder, Postorder and Level Order traversals) and Trie Data Structures. 

DSA is a very vast topic and it is not easy to complete it with quizzes, assignments, midsems and endsems always round the corner. I couldn't solve much problems but had taken notes of all the important points and standard algorithms that I learnt throughout the project. I will continue my learning of DSA and practice more problems and will start giving contests which was the soul purpose of this project.
